Lokomotive component azure-arc-onboarding (#1473)
kinvolk/lokomotive: docs/how-to-guides/azure-arc-onboarding.md

> ---

Reviewer: I would change the whole doc to have only `az` commands. I have tested the following:

```bash
RG_NAME="suraj-azure-arc-test"
CLUSTER_NAME="suraj-em-cluster"
SUB_ID=$(az account show --query id --output tsv)

az provider register --namespace Microsoft.Kubernetes
az provider register --namespace Microsoft.KubernetesConfiguration
az provider register --namespace Microsoft.ExtendedLocation

az provider show -n Microsoft.Kubernetes -o table
az provider show -n Microsoft.KubernetesConfiguration -o table
az provider show -n Microsoft.ExtendedLocation -o table

az group create --name "${RG_NAME}" --location EastUS --output table

az ad sp create-for-rbac -n azure-arc-enabled-kubernetes --skip-assignment -o jsonc > /tmp/sp-cred.json
SP_ID=$(az ad sp list -o tsv --query='[0].objectId' --display-name azure-arc-enabled-kubernetes)

# Assign "Kubernetes Cluster - Azure Arc Onboarding" Role by its identifier
az role assignment create --assignee "${SP_ID}" \
    --role "Kubernetes Cluster - Azure Arc Onboarding" \
    --scope /subscriptions/${SUB_ID}/resourcegroups/${RG_NAME}

az role assignment create --assignee "${SP_ID}" \
    --role "Microsoft.Kubernetes connected cluster role" \
    --scope /subscriptions/${SUB_ID}/resourcegroups/${RG_NAME}

# Copy values from /tmp/sp-cred.json

APPLICATION_ID=$(jq -r .appId /tmp/sp-cred.json)
APPLICATION_PASSWORD=$(jq -r .password /tmp/sp-cred.json)
TENANT_ID=$(jq -r .tenant /tmp/sp-cred.json)

echo "component \"azure-arc-onboarding\" {
  application_client_id = \"${APPLICATION_ID}\"
  application_password  = \"${APPLICATION_PASSWORD}\"
  tenant_id             = \"${TENANT_ID}\"
  resource_group        = \"${RG_NAME}\"
  cluster_name          = \"${CLUSTER_NAME}\"
}
"

az extension add --name k8s-configuration

az k8s-configuration create \
  --name cluster-config \
  --cluster-name "${CLUSTER_NAME}" \
  --resource-group ${RG_NAME} \
  --operator-instance-name cluster-config \
  --operator-namespace cluster-config \
  --repository-url https://github.com/ipochi/azure-arc-nginx-demo \
  --scope cluster \
  --cluster-type connectedClusters \
  --operator-params='--git-branch=main'
```

Reviewer: In ^^^ the service principal name `azure-arc-enabled-kubernetes` can be parameterised as well!

services](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-in/services/azure-arc/hybrid-data-services/).

- Establish central visibility in the [Azure portal](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-in/features/azure-portal/)
and enable multi-environment search with Azure Resource Graph.

- Meet [governance](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-in/solutions/governance/) and compliance standards for
apps, infrastructure and data with [Azure Policy](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-in/services/azure-policy/).

- Delegate access and manage security policies for resources using role-based access control (RBAC) and [Azure
Lighthouse](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-in/services/azure-lighthouse/).

- Organise and inventory assets through a variety of Azure scopes, such as management groups, subscriptions,
resource groups and tags.

This guide provides the steps for onboarding a Lokomotive cluster on Azure Arc.

## Learning objectives

At the end of this tutorial you will have onboarded a Lokomotive cluster on Azure Arc, create a Azure Arc
Kubernetes configuration and deploy configuration of a sample Nginx Deployment using Gitops.

## Prerequisites

> * A Lokomotive cluster.

Author: good point. but an AKS cluster is not by default Azure Arc enabled so Azure Arc onboarding can be done for any Lokomotive cluster.

> * A Lokomotive cluster.

Reviewer 2: Would be nice to check how it behaves and maybe mention that AKS credentials can be reused then for Arc?

> * A Lokomotive cluster.

Author: https://github.com/kinvolk/lokomotive/pull/1473/commits/d61861e50a74c35169c520104cc97462105bf0d2#r667709295

documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/role-assignments-portal)
      provides a guided way to add permissions to the Service principal.

   The following set of roles are needed
     * Kubernetes Cluster - Azure Arc Onboarding
     * Microsoft.Kubernetes connected cluster role
     * Owner

## Steps

### Step 1: Configure [azure-arc-onboarding](../configuration-reference/components/azure-arc-onboarding.md)
Lokomotive component.

#### Config

Create a file named `azure-arc-onboarding.lokocfg` with the following contents:

```tf
component "azure-arc-onboarding" {
  application_client_id = "29348jdw-9g23-9kot-21sa-opw129831c2k"
  application_password  = "foobar"
  tenant_id             = "s38kjs4k-x123-89h2-7f21-89uffo109921"
  resource_group        = "AzureArcTest"
  cluster_name          = "mercury"
}
```

Visit the component's [configuration reference](../configuration-reference/components/rook.md) for more
information.

#### Deploy the component

Execute the following command to deploy the `azure-arc-onboarding` component:

```bash
lokoctl component apply azure-arc-onboarding
```

> Verify the pod in the `azure-arc-onboarding` namespace is in the `Completed` state (this may take a few minutes):

Author: What would `--wait` do ? 

The user receives the prompt back once the job is finished.

> Verify the pod in the `azure-arc-onboarding` namespace is in the `Completed` state (this may take a few minutes):

Reviewer 2: Ah right, make sense. And does `az connectedk8s` has some sort of `--wait` flag as well maybe?

> Verify the pod in the `azure-arc-onboarding` namespace is in the `Completed` state (this may take a few minutes):

Author: How would I go about finding that ?

> Verify the pod in the `azure-arc-onboarding` namespace is in the `Completed` state (this may take a few minutes):

Reviewer 2: I see it has [`--no-wait`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/connectedk8s?view=azure-cli-latest#az-connectedk8s-connect) flag, meaning it waits by default, so all good.

azure-arc-register-4s54j   0/1     Completed   0          81m
```

Azure Arc installs varios Helm charts in the `azure-arc` namespace, verify that all the deployments are in
`Running` state:

```console
$ kubectl -n azure-arc get pods
NAME                                         READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cluster-metadata-operator-7cff574c4f-ld8cv   2/2     Running   0          83m
clusterconnect-agent-6dfd867c68-629xg        3/3     Running   0          83m
clusteridentityoperator-fd498bf96-dqlhr      2/2     Running   0          83m
config-agent-bd647558d-f46xn                 2/2     Running   0          83m
controller-manager-8676dcdc6-mv68p           2/2     Running   0          83m
extension-manager-bcfd5b597-lsk85            2/2     Running   0          83m
flux-logs-agent-6596f58c56-55l7r             1/1     Running   0          83m
kube-aad-proxy-97bf4bcf8-g9djl               2/2     Running   0          83m
metrics-agent-5b9b94754f-qf5q2               2/2     Running   0          83m
resource-sync-agent-f8c7c6b6b-zvhx4          2/2     Running   0          83m
```

### Step 3: Create a Kubernetes configuration

#### Install `k8s-configuration` Azure CLI extension

> In order to create a Kubernetes configuration, we need to first install the `k8s-configurtion` Azure CLi

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to create a Kubernetes configuration, we need to first install the `k8s-configuration` Azure CLI
```

> In order to create a Kubernetes configuration, we need to first install the `k8s-configurtion` Azure CLi

Reviewer 2: Should we ask for installing the extension before we touch on the cluster, so user can first resolve local issues before interacting with outside world? I'd be happier as a user if I make sure everything works locally first, before "polluting" external world, if you know what I mean :)

Author: added it as a point in prerequisites

extension:

```bash
az extension add --name k8s-configuration
```

> #### Create a configuration
> 
> ```bash

Reviewer 2: I'd add a word of explanation here, like (suggestion is more like a placeholder):
```suggestion
#### Create a configuration

Now, we can create example configuration by executing the command below:

```bash
```

- `scope` - scope of the operator. Accepted values: `cluster` or `namespace`.
- `cluster-type` - Arc cluster type. Accepted values: `connectedClusters` or `managedClusters`.
- `operator-params` - Additional parameters to pass to the Operator. In this case, change default git branch to `main`.

This creates two Deployments in the provided namespace `cluster-config`, corresponding to the GitOps agent
that Azure Arc uses:

```bash
kubectl get deployments -n cluster-config
NAME                         READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
cluster-config               1/1     1            1           103m
memcached-cluster-config     1/1     1            1           103m

kubectl get pods -n cluster-config
NAME                                          READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cluster-config-5f68dd9bd5-xsmc9               1/1     Running   0          5d18h
memcached-cluster-config-857d47969f-v2g8q     1/1     Running   0          5d18h
```

Once the `cluster-config` pods are in `Running` state, you'll notice that a new resources are created in the
namespace `demo`. The manifests for these resources are pulled from the provided Git repository.

```bash

> k get all -n demo

Reviewer: I don't think every uses this alias.

NAME                           READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/my-nginx-5bcdc5784-fb87k   1/1     Running   0          105m
pod/my-nginx-5bcdc5784-g2gt2   1/1     Running   0          105m

NAME               TYPE       CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
service/my-nginx   NodePort   10.3.250.153   <none>        8080:32500/TCP   105m

NAME                       READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/my-nginx   2/2     2            2           105m

NAME                                  DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/my-nginx-5bcdc5784    2         2         2       105m
replicaset.apps/my-nginx-5f4dfbff8c   0         0         0       105m
```

> If you used your own Git repository url , try making the changes and committing to your repository. You'll

Reviewer 2: committing != publishing (pushing)
```suggestion
If you used your own Git repository URL, try pushing some changes to your repository. You'll
```

> notice the changes propagate instantly without the need for any manual intervention.

Reviewer 2: This looks like very neat feature of Arc. Also the guide describing it is nicely written, I like it :)

Author: our how-to guide is nicely written or the Azure documentation regarding this feature ?

Reviewer 2: Your guide of course :)

[here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app#add-a-client-secret).

      Take note of the Application ID, Tenant ID, Secret ID and Secret Value, in the overview section.
      You'll need them when creating component configuration.

   c. Provide Azure Arc related permissions to the Service principal object(App registration). [Azure
documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/role-assignments-portal)
      provides a guided way to add permissions to the Service principal.

   The following set of roles are needed
     * Kubernetes Cluster - Azure Arc Onboarding
     * Microsoft.Kubernetes connected cluster role
     * Owner

## Steps

### Step 1: Configure [azure-arc-onboarding](../configuration-reference/components/azure-arc-onboarding.md)
Lokomotive component.

#### Config

Create a file named `azure-arc-onboarding.lokocfg` with the following contents:

```tf
component "azure-arc-onboarding" {
	application_client_id ="29348jdw-9g23-9kot-21sa-opw129831c2k"
  application_password  ="foobar"
  tenant_id             ="s38kjs4k-x123-89h2-7f21-89uffo109921"
  resource_group        ="AzureArcTest"

>   cluster_name          ="mercury"

Reviewer 2: Ditto formatting.
